feat: Rename theme to context (#996)
patternfly/patternfly-elements: docs/content/theme/_index.md

+++
title = "Theming overview"
description = "Use our beautifully designed theme, or modify it to your needs."
weight = 1
draft = false
bref = ""
toc = true
menu = "theme"
tags = [ "theme" ]
wcs = [ "pfe-cta", "pfe-card" ]
+++

## Theming 101

> When referring to the "theme" in PatternFly Elements, we are talking about a set of CSS variables that, when built into the styles of the components, allow for a consistent styling across a site. Theme values are generically named using a BEM approach and focus on broad design concepts which makes them reusable in a variety of contexts.

Author: generically - meaning not specifically.  I think that's correct.  It's not that different from generally but is more precise to our meaning.

> When referring to the "theme" in PatternFly Elements, we are talking about a set of CSS variables that, when built into the styles of the components, allow for a consistent styling across a site. Theme values are generically named using a BEM approach and focus on broad design concepts which makes them reusable in a variety of contexts.

Author: Component-specific variables aren't really a part of theming though so I don't think we muddy the waters here.

```html
<pfe-cta priority="primary">
    <a href="#">Primary</a>
</pfe-cta>
```

<br/>
<pfe-cta priority="primary">
    <a href="#">Primary</a>
</pfe-cta>

The `priority="primary"` variation of the `pfe-cta` makes use of the `ui-accent` color for the background because that link should be the brightest, boldest, most attention-grabbing item on the page.

By default, the `pfe-cta` styles call a particular variable stack comprised of a local variable (such as `--pfe-cta--BackgroundColor`), a theme variable (such as `--pfe-theme--color--ui-accent`), and a fallback value (`#06c`).  When putting a component on your page with no additional code, you will see your button using the fallback value, `#06c`.

But what happens if you don't want the standard `ui-accent` on your page to be `#06c`?

Your site can customize the value of any of the available theme assets!  You can change your `ui-accent` color for your entire site to be `#e00` by adding:

```css
:root {
	--pfe-theme--color--ui-accent: #e00;
}
```

> (You don't have to use `:root`, it's just a common example in documentation related to CSS variables.)

Author: This is quite verbose.  I find keeping things straight forward is easier to grok.

How about:

```suggestion
You don't have to use the `:root` selector; you can scope variables so they target the whole document (via `:root` or `body`) or specific areas (via an id or class).  CSS variables follow all the same rules as the standard CSS cascade.
```

Any other component making use of that same `ui-accent` value will inherit your customization creating a consistent experience for your users.

## Context

> Each component comes equipped to adjust its colors depending on the context inside which it exists. For example, should you need to put a default CTA (which is blue) on a dark blue card, the CTA will need to adapt so that the text remain readable. You can do this by informing the component of its context by giving the `context` attribute the value of `dark`.

Author: Fair enough but you're example takes it in a totally different direction which was not what I was trying to communicate here at all.  I'll rework below.

> Each component comes equipped to adjust its colors depending on the context inside which it exists. For example, should you need to put a default CTA (which is blue) on a dark blue card, the CTA will need to adapt so that the text remain readable. You can do this by informing the component of its context by giving the `context` attribute the value of `dark`.

Author: ```suggestion
Each component comes equipped to adjust its colors depending on the context inside which it exists. For example, should you need to put a default CTA (which is blue) on a dark blue card, the CTA will need to adapt so that the text remain readable. The card component therefore needs to pass down a `context` to the CTA, which it does using the `on="dark"` attribute.  This is programmatically applied by JavaScript that runs from the base class, `PFElement` (you don't have to do a thing!).  To manually override a component's context, you can do this by setting the `context="dark"` attribute.
```

> <pfe-card pfe-color="darkest">

Author: ```suggestion
<pfe-card color="darkest">
```
